-------------  HAPSEMBLER INSTALLATION GUIDE --------------------------

Last update: September 17, 2012

-- TO INSTALL --

    Extract the tarfile by typing:

"tar -xvzf hapsembler-X.X.tar.gz"

    After extracting the tarfile into the desired installation directory,
change to the "hapsembler-X.X" directory. Once in this directory, type:

"make"

    This command will create the binaries and place them under
"hapsembler-X.X/bin/". To make the scripts and executables accessible from
different directories, simply add the full path of this directory to your
system PATH.

    If your compiler does not support OpenMP, use the following command instead
to disable multithreading:

"make NO_OMP=1"

    You can get the list compilers supporting OpenMP at http://openmp.org/wp/.
You can control the number of threads used by Hapsembler at runtime so there is
no downside to compiling Hapsembler with OpenMP support.

    If installation is succesfull you should see the following binaries
under "hapsembler-X.X/bin":

    preprocr
    encore
    overlappr
    hapsemblr
    consensr
    scarpa

    In addition to these binaries, you should also find a shell script named
"hapsemble" and two perl scripts named "scarpa_parser" and "scarpa_process"
under "hapsembler-X.X/bin".

-- SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS --

    Hapsembler package requires the following to install and run successfully.
Listed in parenthesis are the versions used to test the current Hapsembler
package. These utilities must be accessible via the system path:

   - make (GNU make 3.81)
   - g++  (GNU gcc 4.3.2)
   - bash (GNU bash 3.2.25)
   - perl (v5.8.8)

    Make sure you have sufficient memory and disk space avaliable to Hapsembler
before running. A minimum of 16GB memory is recommended. Typically, Hapsembler
will require around 3-4 times the memory that is required to store the reads.
Keep in mind that actual requirements will vary with sequence coverage depth
and repeat structure of the genome.

    For information on how to use Hapsembler, please see the README file or
view the documentation (in pdf format) under "hapsembler-X.X/doc".

Please send your questions and bug reports to: <nild@cs.toronto.edu>

